---
layout: post
title: My Experience with Bloc

---


I found out about Bloc through a post on Reddit. It must have made the front page, or maybe it was an ad, because it wouldn’t have been in r/Jokes or r/Awww.. I remember that I stored that link as a bookmark in Chrome, but I don’t even think I opened it at the time. Then one day, it must have been several months later, I was cleaning up my bookmarks and saw something I didn’t recognize: a link to some program called “Bloc”. As it happens, I had been thinking about a career change at the time, so I decided to join in on the webinar that Monday night. 

The program seemed legit. A bit pricey, but legit. I gave myself a few weeks to think it over (I would be leaving quite the salary to go back to school) but eventually decided to dive in. One thing I have to note, when I first started looking into the program in March of 2016, the software engineering track was scheduled to be 48 weeks long. By the time I decided to formally sign up in July, the course had changed to be 27 weeks long. After that shock, I had to rearrange plans with my job at the time, so I pushed my start date back to October. When I signed up then, the software engineering track was 36 weeks long! I guess this strength and weakness of a relatively new, online program. Compared to a formal university, this program is much more flexible, but it also lacks the established curriculum of a formal university. Again, that may be its greatest strength, but initially, it was off-putting and seemed like they didn’t quite know what they were doing. 

But, initial woes aside, my experience with the program so far has been a positive one. In the first few weeks, the bulk of the work is stuff you can do for free (or cheap) just by signing up for an  account on <a href =”http://www.lynda.com”>lynda</a> or <a href=”http://www.codeschool.com”> codeschool</a>. But the benefit has been in the structure of the program. Knowing which skills are pertinent for the job market today are what gives the program credibility.

The other great thing is access to a mentor/coach up to 3 times a week. I’m doing the program full-time, so for 1.5 hours a week, I’m learning directly from an industry professional. He’s been able to cut through some problems that seemed insurmountable to me with relative ease. And, his explanations of the problem were such that I learn a good deal from the encounters.

A big draw to the program was the promise of a money-back guarantee if you don’t find a job. So far the career services/outcomes team seem committed to delivering on that promise. I’ve even arranged to speak with a professional from the gaming industry, just by virtue of having talked to the right person in career services! I’m only about 3 weeks into the program so far, but everything is working out well to this point.


