---
layout: post
title: My Goals

---

I suppose I always knew I would end up in this field. One of my best friends in high school, Mike, took up computer science as his major in our shared college of the University of Texas at Austin. Some of the problems I saw him work on were, frankly, intimidating. When I’d signed up for college in the first place, electrical engineering was to be my major. When I arrived at orientation, a combination of the lure of money from the Petroleum Engineering major and a seemingly sincere discouragement from the electrical engineering dean led me to avoid taking on what was my initial desire. 

I was driven into the field by my interest in electronics, and , specifically at the time of college, the iPhone. I was fascinated by all of the things that can be done with our ever-growing suite of technological advances.  After having shied away from my passion for coding in college, I ended up working for a major oil company. This occupied my time for 4 years. Four years of fancy living, expensive trips, formal dinners… But 4 years that didn’t ultimately contain the level of growth and learning that I desired. So, after much deliberation, I decided to leave that job.

So now here I am. Back in school, trying to learn a new skill. The reason I know this is the correct field is because I do this in my free time. I’ll spend hours trying to decipher code or implement an algorithm, and be energized by having done the work. So what do I want to accomplish while my life is on this path?

My other main inspiration, besides the iPhone, is an absolute passion for video games. At least part of me believes that the lessons I learned playing games like the Legend of Zelda – in which I had to persevere to solve a problem (there was no Internet to look up where to go back then!) - cultivated the kind of personality that it takes to solve challenging algorithmic problems. As an end goal, I want to be able to contribute to the creation of stellar video games. I imagine a career doing that would entail solving different problems on a daily basis, working across disciplines with artists, sound engineers, creative teams, marketers, publishers, etc. all to deliver a final product. That is my ultimate goal.

While learning front-end design, I hope to take on challenges to deliver web applications that show (the world and myself) what I can do. Already, in contributing to this blog I’ve learned a great deal about how web pages are structured, how to build them, and how to animate them with JavaScript. The dream goal with my time as a front-end developer would be to help the next big start up company create a beautiful website that helps to propel their program to new heights. Right now, every day is a learning adventure, and I hope to continue the journey to a new level of skill!
